---
layout: post
title: "Jekyll Blogging"
description: "Jekyll blogging tool, some tips"
category:
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

The reason why I am writing this post is I am too much annoyed by the fact that I can't remmember how did I  create blog post using jekyll in the past. I am not a regular blogger, when I want to write something I just google how to start the jekyll server and how to create a new post etc etc. I no longer want to do that so I am writing this post.

[Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) is a very interesting and very simple tool to create static websites especially blogs. The most interesting feature I think is I can use markdown format for writing my posts and I don't have to worry too much about the formatting my text. I started usign this tool when I moved to github pages from wordpress.

lets start with the installation, first you need to install jekyll gem.

    $ gem install jekyll

This command will install jekyll gem along with the dependencies. Now create a new blog

    $ jekyll new myblog

Go to the myblog directory and start the jekyll server

    $ jekyll serve

This will build your blog and starts WEBrick server on your machine. Now open your browser and go to [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000). To write a new post create a file in \_posts directory and write the post in it. Restart the server to view your post.

If you want to host your site somewhere you can use the contents of \_site folder which is the static site generated by jekyll for you. To generate the site run the build command.

    $ jekyll build

To start with jekyll it is best to go with [jekyll bootstrap](http://jekyllbootstrap.com/). The bootstrap gives you easy rake taks for creating pages and posts also it helps to install beautiful themes. Jekyll bootstrap is well documented and is very quick to start with. We can configure permalinks, comments and analytics using bootstrap.